let's go live to Omaha Nebraska now
where liz claman is sitting down with
berkshire hathaway chairman and CEO
warren buffett and some special guests
good morning Liz good morning Alexis yes
the first official lodge sit-down
interview in a long form here with mr.
Buffett who's been kind enough to join
fox business good morning are you
exhausted no I'm not tired at all my
voice is a little shot but otherwise I'm
doing great this what amazes me out of
43 years this was your biggest meeting
ever of 31,000 people compared to last
year say 27,000 you Beast burst the seam
soon of the quest center that's the
problem well there's not a good plan B
one possibility because we will
basically we might I might ask the
people in Omaha to go to a second
overflow auditorium with like the civic
auditorium which would hold ten dollars
it's not a voluntary basis if for the
guests that are coming in and if i could
get five or six thousand to do that you
know we can handle some more this was
the third year out of ten where you made
a big deal the week of the shareholder
meeting this year was wrigley believer
year two ago it was Ascar before that
McLean is this now your modus operandi
where you land the big fish to feed to
the masses who come to see you I'd love
to do it but it's been accident
obviously because deals happen at
Berkshire when the other person initiate
something I had no idea about Mars and
regular a few few weeks ago so i hope i
can come up with something but i'll take
them anytime you never launched a
hostile takeover anything like that no
why not well it it's just not my way of
living I I want people that want to join
us and I want managers there enthused
once they get here we're going to keep
the management in place that that comes
with the deal and we're not equipped to
take over something and rate rate of
rate of castle and then bring in our own
troops afterwards or anything like that
so well never hat will never a baton
from you know what amazed me about the
shareholder weekend was that after seven
hours of questions and I listened to
every single one of the very few of them
were about the Berkshire business in
fact i think forbes has written a column
saying that then I'm quoting them that
the shareholder meetings become a farce
because the shareholders don't ask tough
questions about the businesses in
Berkshire what's your response to well
all I can say is that we don't filter a
minute anyway we let whoever gets up to
the microphone first as a question we
don't ask them the question they're
going to ask before they ask it and in
the end 31,000 people get to come and
ask whatever they want to but I was
surprised how few questions that were on
Berkshire this year well let me ask some
of the ok business questions your most
recent profits were down sixty four
percent do two derivatives exposure you
aggressively traffic in derivatives what
happened there how much more is there to
come well as we explained in the press
release it we have two basic types of
derivatives and well what happened in
april's actually they went up with maybe
five or six hundred million they they
get marked every day to market and
reported every quarter on a market basis
and a big segment of them are 15 and 20
year equity puts so the first money will
change hands in 2019 but every time the
market changes foreign exchange changes
the formulas used to value them moves
the numbers around we keep all the cash
we've got eight billion dollars we're
holding on the two castles could have
derivatives so to me it's meaningless
but it's required by accounting and and
that's what happens well let's broaden
the aperture to some of your other
businesses that might have housing
exposure You certainly have these
businesses that are tightly linked to
the housing market Shaw carpet Clayton
Homes you also have acme brick right how
much have they reacted to what you now
call the recession that we're seeing
what if their housing related they're
down and and sometimes they're down a
lot the one that would be down the most
would be Acme Brick because every every
bit of their product goes into pretty
much residential construction and but
Shaw carpet is affected by the same
thing their competitor mohawk carpet is
affected so anything we have the end our
furniture operations in Las Vegas for
example where residential housing slowed
down a lot we see it so we get a little
we get the playback from anything that's
going on in the way of a slow down our
residence
real estate you get the playback of
everything that was sold over the
weekend how you got the numbers going to
give us some well Oh in the it all all
there was no recession this weekend our
furniture store here on Saturday broke
its all-time record we did seven and a
quarter million dollars in one day at a
furniture store there any retailer
listening to that all right housing
slump yeah and a year ago on Saturday we
set our record at that time of six and a
half million so it was up over ten
percent a record-breaking and jewelry
everything sold in record numbers he's
sold out she's all about everything
everything sells out pretty much you
wouldn't go global with seas try and get
into the Chinese market I wish we could
lose we've tried 50 different ways it's
not a prophet not a product that travels
exists in the East two-thirds of the
people in the East prefer dark chocolate
two-thirds of the people in the West
prefer milk chocolate they're different
tastes and we do wonderfully where they
love us but it's hard to extend it about
this recession Alan Greenspan says it'll
be this how he put it a pale recession i
don't know as opposed to what a tan
recession I think what do you see it as
more like a sunburn ya know I think I
think the odds are good that it will be
longer and deeper than most people
anticipate but that's not my game I mean
I I I go ahead and do a Mars wrigley
deal regardless of what the forecast
might be it doesn't make any difference
to me but just from what I see with the
consumer I would say that this is going
to be a lot longer deeper than most
people think beyond the obvious nobody
asked deeper questions about the
succession plan you've said before
you've got the three names in a vault of
people who would be the Chairman you've
got four other names for chief
investment officer everybody's talking
barons has the front cover of it saying
it's David Sokolov Mid America and i met
him over the weekend delightful of
course he wouldn't say anything but
let's just fast forward and imagine that
the succession plan suddenly has to kick
into place what's good Berkshire stop
going to do how will it react knowing
that the man whose record nobody's
duplicated isn't running this company
anymore the person who succeeds me will
be better in many respects running
virtual
than I am I may have certain advantages
in some I'm a known quantity to some
degree but it won't make it we've got 76
wonderful businesses run by 76 managers
and the person will succeed me will be a
good deal maker there'll be a good
operating manager and the stock
shouldn't go down although I'll be a
little disappointed if it goes up a lot
when I the day I die I mean one of the
directors the board of directors say to
you they say please stay healthy I mean
what I think concerned about you and
just want to make sure things go as
planned the main topic we will talk
about today and this is true every time
is the three possible successors will
talk about the investment people that
that's that's the primary interest to
the board they want to know the answer
to that and they do